- [Instructor] Here's a good deal of information
that we have covered here with JBoss WildFly.
The hope was that we could explore
some of the high level details needed to install,
start up, configure, and deploy applications,
but honestly there is a good deal I had to skip over as well
because JBoss WildFly could be a video series unto itself.
Let's pause for a moment
and consider some of the high level advantages
to using WildFly.
Starting with JDK 11,
the modularization features have affected areas
like class loading and reflection,
which are hugely important to any Java application sever.
WildFly has readily addressed this in the latest edition.
WildFly also uses a new flexible performance web server
called Undertow.
Undertow uses NIO's non-blocking and buffer ability.
The traditional IO API
is streamed, and so you can't move backwards and forward,
in the data stream.
The traditional IO, as well,
is also blocking when a read or an execute is invoked
and so the thread can do nothing else until released.
Because Undertow uses NIO
and not IO, this means that WildFly
can scale to over a million connections.
Wildfly, according to their site, has taken a memory diet,
grabbing up less cache
so applications have more room to run.
This is in part because of WildFly's use
of a modular class loading which prevents duplicate classes
and loading more than the system configuration requires.
Additionally, the management console is 100% stateless.
We looked at some of the other advantages
of standalone and domain mode earlier.
These modes enable the ability to quickly tune the server
for running either a simple Java EE web profile
or full certified app server.
Not to mention the ease in creating domain
or high availability cluster servers.
Another interesting problem that WildFly is solving
is the developer Jar Hell
by using JBoss modules
to provide true applications isolation.
Hiding server implementation classes
from the deployed application and only linking with jars
that your application needs.
This is huge.
This also means WildFly
is eliminating problematic hierarchical classloaders
which in turn affects performance,
making class loading work faster.
And, of course, we mentioned this at the start,
but WildFly is upstream of JBoss EAP development.
This means that WildFly makes available
some of the latest Java EE features that JBoss EAP,
in version seven, still can't support.
What kind of disadvantages, though, should I be aware of?
WildFly 15 is the latest and greatest,
and so, over the course of the year,
issues will be found and addressed.
This means that because you're using the latest release,
you may run into issues that others have not yet solved.
This brings me to the next issue.
If you decide to use WildFly in production,
keep in mind that Red Hat does not sell support for WildFly,
according to Red Hat.
If you need enterprise level support from Red Hat,
you'll need the subscription
to JBoss Enterprise Application Platform.
That is, JBoss EAP.
Now this does not mean you can't purchase support,
because other companies sell service contracts
to support WildFly, but just not Red Hat.